README.md, before:

# Pharmacy States of Operation Validation

This script validates pharmacy states of operation using OpenAI's o3-deepresearch API. It processes a CSV file containing mail-order pharmacy data and verifies if their listed states of operation are accurate.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Install Dependencies

Choose one of the following methods:

#### Option A: Using UV (Recommended - Fast & Modern)
```bash
# Install UV if you haven't already
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Install dependencies
uv sync
```

#### Option B: Using pip (Traditional)
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Set OpenAI API Key

You need an OpenAI API key with access to the o3-deepresearch model.

#### Method 1: Environment Variables
**On macOS/Linux:**
```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key-here"
```

**On Windows:**
```cmd
set OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key-here
```

#### Method 2: .env File (Recommended)
Create a `.env` file in the project directory:
```bash
# Create .env file
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key-here" > .env
```

The script will automatically load the API key from the `.env` file.

### 3. Prepare Your CSV File
- Ensure your CSV file is named: `Mail Order Pharmacies by State Jul 31 2025.csv`
- Or update the `CSV_FILENAME` variable in the script if using a different name
- The CSV must contain the column: `Operates in states`

## Usage

### Quick Start

#### Using UV:
```bash
# Automated runner (recommended)
uv run run_validation.py

# Or run individual scripts
uv run validate_pharmacy_states.py
```

#### Using pip/python:
```bash
# Automated runner (recommended)
python run_validation.py

# Or run individual scripts
python validate_pharmacy_states.py
```

### Verification
Test your setup before running validation:
```bash
# With UV
uv run test_setup.py

# With pip/python
python test_setup.py
```

## What the Script Does

1. **Loads the CSV** and validates it has the required columns
2. **Splits data into batches** of 30 pharmacies (configurable)
3. **Uses OpenAI o3-deepresearch** to validate each pharmacy's states of operation
4. **Creates a new CSV** with the original data plus validation results

## Output

The script creates a new CSV file with timestamp: `validated_pharmacies_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.csv`

### New Columns Added:
- **Initial states of operation correct**: Boolean (True/False/None)
- **States of operation by OpenAI deepresearch**: Corrected states if different from original
- **Validation confidence**: high/medium/low/error
- **Validation reasoning**: Explanation of the validation decision

## Configuration

You can modify these variables in the script:
- `BATCH_SIZE`: Number of pharmacies per API call (default: 30)
- `RATE_LIMIT_DELAY`: Seconds between API calls (default: 2)
- `CSV_FILENAME`: Input CSV filename
- `OUTPUT_FILENAME`: Output CSV filename pattern

## Logs

The script creates detailed logs in:
- Console output (real-time progress)
- Log file: `validation_log_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.log`

## Error Handling

The script handles:
- Missing API keys
- Invalid CSV files
- API rate limits
- Parsing errors
- Network timeouts

If validation fails for any batch, it continues with the remaining batches and marks failed items appropriately.

## Cost Considerations

- The o3-deepresearch model is expensive (~$20-40 per 1M tokens)
- Each batch of 30 pharmacies uses approximately 1,000-2,000 tokens
- Total cost depends on your dataset size and API pricing

## Support

For issues or questions, check the log files for detailed error messages.

Commit message:

Fix model name and add comprehensive access requirements documentation
🐛 Fixes:
- Correct model name from 'o3-deepresearch' to 'o3-deep-research'
- Add configurable model selection via OPENAI_MODEL environment variable

📋 Access Requirements Added:
- Document Verified Organization status requirement for o3-deep-research
- Add ID verification process explanation
- Include pricing information (-40/1M tokens)
- Provide alternative models (gpt-4o, gpt-4.1) for users without access

🔧 Improvements:
- Enhanced .env.example with model configuration options
- Updated test_setup.py to check and warn about model requirements
- Added fallback model suggestions in README
- Clear guidance for users who don't have premium model access

This ensures colleagues understand the access requirements and have fallback options.

README.md, after:

# Pharmacy States of Operation Validation

This script validates pharmacy states of operation using OpenAI's o3-deepresearch API. It processes a CSV file containing mail-order pharmacy data and verifies if their listed states of operation are accurate.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Install Dependencies

Choose one of the following methods:

#### Option A: Using UV (Recommended - Fast & Modern)
```bash
# Install UV if you haven't already
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Install dependencies
uv sync
```

#### Option B: Using pip (Traditional)
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Set OpenAI API Key

You need an OpenAI API key with access to the o3-deep-research model.

**⚠️ IMPORTANT ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:**
- **Verified Organization Status**: Your OpenAI organization must have "Verified Organization" status
- **ID Verification**: Requires government ID verification through a third-party service  
- **Higher Tier**: Not all API keys have access to o3 models
- **Expensive**: ~$10-40/1M tokens (each batch of 30 pharmacies may cost $20-40+)

**To get access:**
1. Go to your OpenAI Platform dashboard
2. Navigate to Organization Settings → Verification
3. Complete the ID verification process
4. Wait for approval (may take time)

**Alternative Models (if you don't have o3-deep-research access):**
- **gpt-4o**: Good quality, more accessible ($5/1M input, $15/1M output)
- **gpt-4.1**: Solid analytical capabilities
- Set in your .env file: `OPENAI_MODEL=gpt-4o`

#### Method 1: Environment Variables
**On macOS/Linux:**
```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key-here"
```

**On Windows:**
```cmd
set OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key-here
```

#### Method 2: .env File (Recommended)
Create a `.env` file in the project directory:
```bash
# Create .env file
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key-here" > .env
```

The script will automatically load the API key from the `.env` file.

### 3. Prepare Your CSV File
- Ensure your CSV file is named: `Mail Order Pharmacies by State Jul 31 2025.csv`
- Or update the `CSV_FILENAME` variable in the script if using a different name
- The CSV must contain the column: `Operates in states`

## Usage

### Quick Start

#### Using UV:
```bash
# Automated runner (recommended)
uv run run_validation.py

# Or run individual scripts
uv run validate_pharmacy_states.py
```

#### Using pip/python:
```bash
# Automated runner (recommended)
python run_validation.py

# Or run individual scripts
python validate_pharmacy_states.py
```

### Verification
Test your setup before running validation:
```bash
# With UV
uv run test_setup.py

# With pip/python
python test_setup.py
```

## What the Script Does

1. **Loads the CSV** and validates it has the required columns
2. **Splits data into batches** of 30 pharmacies (configurable)
3. **Uses OpenAI o3-deepresearch** to validate each pharmacy's states of operation
4. **Creates a new CSV** with the original data plus validation results

## Output

The script creates a new CSV file with timestamp: `validated_pharmacies_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.csv`

### New Columns Added:
- **Initial states of operation correct**: Boolean (True/False/None)
- **States of operation by OpenAI deepresearch**: Corrected states if different from original
- **Validation confidence**: high/medium/low/error
- **Validation reasoning**: Explanation of the validation decision

## Configuration

You can modify these variables in the script:
- `BATCH_SIZE`: Number of pharmacies per API call (default: 30)
- `RATE_LIMIT_DELAY`: Seconds between API calls (default: 2)
- `CSV_FILENAME`: Input CSV filename
- `OUTPUT_FILENAME`: Output CSV filename pattern

## Logs

The script creates detailed logs in:
- Console output (real-time progress)
- Log file: `validation_log_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.log`

## Error Handling

The script handles:
- Missing API keys
- Invalid CSV files
- API rate limits
- Parsing errors
- Network timeouts

If validation fails for any batch, it continues with the remaining batches and marks failed items appropriately.

## Cost Considerations

- The o3-deepresearch model is expensive (~$20-40 per 1M tokens)
- Each batch of 30 pharmacies uses approximately 1,000-2,000 tokens
- Total cost depends on your dataset size and API pricing

## Support

For issues or questions, check the log files for detailed error messages.
